
\begin{abstract}

This work compares and evaluates different computational approaches for modeling
off-normal operation of a gas centrifuge enrichment cascade.

The goal of this work focuses on developing the necessary understanding of
potential misuse of enrichment cascades to design more effective and efficient
international safeguards approaches.  While it is straightforward to design an
enrichment cascade under ideal conditions as a function of the theoretical feed,
product and tails assays, it is very difficult to find reliable information
about the behavior of a given cascade when the feed assay does not match the
design value. Several methods have been developed to assess the behavior of an
enrichment cascade in such circumstances, those methods evaluate the cut, the
feed to product, feed to tail and the product to tail enrichment ratio,
respectively, alpha, beta and gamma, as a function of the cascade feed assay. As
those four parameters depends on each other, determining two of them allows to
compute the other.  The first approach consists of fixing the cut and alpha
recomputing the corresponding assays at each stages of the cascade. The second
one maintains the ideal condition of the cascade (alpha and beta fixed across
the whole cascade), modifying the cut value at each stage accordingly. Both
approaches have been implemented into the Cyclus fuel cycle
simulator\cite{cyclus, mbmore.2018}. The
third fixes the cut and gamma, using both alpha and beta at each stage as free
parameters. The third method has been investigated in \cite{walker.2017}.

Following a description of each method and an evaluation of differences between
each approach, this work compares the results produced by these methods within
scenarios involving misuse of enrichment cascades simulated using the dynamic
nuclear fuel cycle simulator, Cyclus.

\end{abstract}
